TOC Restructuring project - New content for review (#2383)
couchbase/docs-server: modules/fts/new_topics/fts-search-request-details.adoc

Therefore, the Couchbase server provides a consistency mechanism to overcome this issue and ensures that the FTS index can search the most up-to-date document written to vBucket.

=== Consistency Level

The consistency level is a parameter that either takes an empty string indicating the unbounded (not_bounded) consistency or at_plus indicating the bounded consistency.

==== at_plus

Executes the query, requiring indexes first to be updated to the timestamp of the last update. 

This implements bounded consistency. The request includes a scan_vector parameter and value, which is used as a lower bound. This can be used to implement read-your-own-writes (RYOW).

If index-maintenance is running behind, the query waits for it to catch up.

==== not_bounded

Executes the query immediately, without requiring any consistency for the query. No timestamp vector is used in the index scan. 

This is the fastest mode, because it avoids the costs of obtaining the vector and waiting for the index to catch up to the vector.

> If index-maintenance is running behind, out-of-date results may be returned.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: If index-maintenance is running behind, out-of-date results may be returned.
```

[#consistency-vectors]
=== Consistency Vectors

The consistency vectors supporting the consistency mechanism in Couchbase contain the mapping of the vbucket and sequence number of the data stored in the vBucket.

For more information about consistency mechanism, see xref:fts-consistency.adoc[Consistency]

==== Example
[source, JSON]
----
{
  "ctl": {
    "timeout": 10000,
    "consistency": {
      "vectors": {
        "index1": {
          "607/205096593892159": 2,
          "640/298739127912798": 4
        }
      },
      "level": "at_plus"
    }
  },
  "query": {
    "match": "jack",
    "field": "name"
  }
}
----

In the example above, this is the set of consistency vectors.

----

> "index1": {

Reviewer: Invalid JSON? Mention it in the text

[source, JSON]
----
{
  "ctl": {
    "timeout": 10000,
    "consistency": {
      "vectors": {
        "index1": {
          "607/205096593892159": 2,
          "640/298739127912798": 4
        }
      },
      "level": "at_plus"
    }
  },
  "query": {
    "match": "jack",
    "field": "name"
  }
}
----

=== Consistency Results

Consistency result is the attribute that you can use to set the query result option, such as complete.

==== Example:
[source, JSON]
----
{
  "query": {...}, 
  "ctl": {
    "consistency": {
      "results": "complete"
    }
  }
} 
----

=== The "Complete" option

The complete option allows you to set the query result as "complete" which indicates that if any of the index partitions are unavailable due to the node not being reachable, the query will display an error in response instead of partial results.
    
==== Example
[source, JSON]
----
{
  "query": {...}, 
  "ctl": {
    "consistency": {
      "results": "complete"
    }
  }
}
----

=== Consistency Tips and Recommendations

Consistency vectors provide 'read your own writes' functionality where the read operation waits for a specific time until the write operation is finished.

> When users know that their queries are complex which require more time in completing the write operations, they can set the timeout value higher than the default timeout of 10 seconds so that consistency can be obtained in the search operations. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When users know that their queries are complex (requiring more time to complete write operations), they can set the timeout value higher than the default timeout of 10 seconds so that consistency can be obtained in the search operations. 
```

However, if this consistency is not required, the users can optimize their search operations by using the default timeout of 10 seconds.

==== Example

[source, JSON]
----
{

  "ctl": {
    "timeout": 10000,
    "consistency": {
      "vectors": {
        "index1": {
          "607/205096593892159": 2,
          "640/298739127912798": 4
        }
      },
      "level": "at_plus"
    }
  },
  "query": {
    "match": "airport",
    "field": "type"
  }
}
----

[#Sizes-From-Pages]
== Size/From/Pages

The number of results obtained for a Full Text Search request can be large. Pagination of these results becomes essential for sorting and displaying a subset of these results.

> There are multiple ways to achieve pagination with settings within a search request. Pagination will fetch a deterministic set of results when the results are sorted in a certain fashion.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are multiple ways to achieve pagination with settings within a search request. Pagination will fetch a deterministic set of results when those results are sorted in a certain fashion.
```

Using `size/limit` and `offset/from` would fetch at least `size + from` ordered results from a partition and then return the `size` number of results starting at offset `from`.

Deep pagination can therefore get pretty expensive when using `size + from` on a sharded index due to each shard having to possibly return large resultsets (at least `size + from`) over the network for merging at the coordinating node before returning the `size` number of results starting at offset `from`.

The default sort order is based on _score_ (relevance) where the results are ordered from the highest to the lowest score.

==== Example

Here's an example query that fetches results from the 11th onwards to the 15th that have been ordered by _score_.

----
{
  "query": {
      "match": "California",
      "field": "state"
  },
  "size": 5,
  "from": 10
}
----

== Search after/before

For an efficient pagination, you can use the `search_after/search_before` settings.

`search_after` is designed to fetch the `size` number of results after the key specified and `search_before` is designed to fetch the `size` number of results before the key specified.

> These settings allow for the client to maintain state while paginating - the sort key of the last result (for search_after) or the first result (for search_before) in the current page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These settings allow for the client to maintain state while paginating using the sort key of the last result (for search_after) or the first result (for search_before) in the current page.
```

Reviewer: Is the change I made correct?

=== Example

Here are some examples using `search_after/search_before` over sort key "_id" (an internal field that carries the document ID).

----
{
  "query": {
      "match": "California",
      "field": "state"
  },
  "sort": ["_id"],
  "search_after": ["hotel_10180"],
  "size": 3
}
----

----
{
  "query": {
      "match": "California",
      "field": "state"
  },
  "sort": ["_id"],
  "search_before": ["hotel_17595"],
  "size": 4
}
----

NOTE: A Full Text Search request that doesn't carry any pagination settings will return the first 10 results (`"size: 10", "from": 0`) ordered by _score_ sequentially from the highest to lowest.

=== Pagination tips and recommendations

The pagination of search results can be done using the 'from' and 'size' parameters in the search request. But as the search gets into deeper pages, it starts consuming more resources.  

To safeguard against any arbitrary higher memory requirements, FTS provides a configurable limit bleveMaxResultWindow (10000 default) on the maximum allowable page offsets. However, bumping this limit to higher levels is not a scalable solution.

> To circumvent this problem, the concept of key set pagination in FTS, is introduced. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To circumvent this problem, the concept of *key set pagination in FTS* is introduced. 
```

Instead of providing _from_ as a number of search results to skip, the user will provide the sort value of a previously seen search result (usually, the last result shown on the current page).  The idea is that to show the next page of the results, we just want the top N results of that sort after the last result from the previous page.

This solution requires a few preconditions be met:

* The search request must specify a sort order.

NOTE: The sort order must impose a total order on the results.  Without this, any results which share the same sort value might be left out when handling the page navigation boundaries.  

A common solution to this is to always include the document ID as the final sort criteria.                                       

For example, if you want to sort by [“name”, “-age”], instead of sort by [“name”, “-age”, "_id"].

With `search_after`/`search_before` paginations, the heap memory requirement of deeper page searches is made proportional to the requested page size alone. So it reduces the heap memory requirement of deeper page searches significantly down from the offset+from values.

> _._

Reviewer: What is this for?

> [#Sorting]

Reviewer: Not a hard and fast rule, but try to keep anchors in lower case.

== Sorting

[abstract]
The FTS results are returned as objects. FTS query includes options to order the results.

=== Sorting Result Data

FTS sorting is sorted by descending order of relevance.  It can , however, be customized to sort by different fields, depending on the application. 

On query-completion, _sorting_ allows specified members of the result-set to be displayed prior to others: this facilitates a review of the most significant data.

Within a JSON query object, the required sort-type is specified by using the `sort` field.

This takes an array of either _strings_, _objects_, or _numeric_ as its value.

=== Sorting with Strings

You can specify the value of the `sort` field as an array of strings.
These can be of three types:

> * _field name_: Specifies the name of a field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `_field name`: Specifies the name of a field.
```

Reviewer: Is this correct? I changed it because it didn't match the formatting of the next two items.

+
If multiple fields are included in the array, the sorting of documents begins according to their values for the field whose name is first in the array.
+
If any number of these values are identical, their documents are sorted again, this time according to their values for the field whose name is second; then, if any number of these values are identical, their documents are sorted a third time, this time according to their values for the field whose name is third; and so on.
+

> Any document-field may be specified to hold the value on which sorting is to be based, provided that the field has been indexed in some way, whether dynamically or specifically.

Reviewer: I'm not sure what you mean by 'specifically' in this context.

+
The default sort-order is _ascending_.
If a field-name is prefixed with the `-` character, that field's results are sorted in _descending_ order.

> * `_id`:Refers to the document identifier.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `_id`: Refers to the document identifier.
```

Whenever encountered in the array, causes sorting to occur by document identifer.

* `_score`: Refers to the score assigned the document in the result-set.
Whenever encountered in the array, causes sorting to occur by score.

==== Example

> // #Need full example here#

Reviewer: Incomplete?

----
"sort": ["country", "state", "city","-_score"]
----

This `sort` statement specifies that results will first be sorted by `country`.

If some documents are then found to have the same value in their `country` fields, they are re-sorted by `state`.

Next, if some of these documents are found to have the same value in their `state` fields, they are re-sorted by `city`.

Finally, if some of these documents are found to have the same value in their `city` fields, they are re-sorted by `score`, in _descending_ order.

The following JSON query demonstrates how and where the `sort` property can be specified:

[source,json]
----
{
  "explain": false,
  "fields": [
    "title"
  ],
  "highlight": {},
  "sort": ["country", "-_score","-_id"],
  "query":{
    "query": "beautiful pool"
  }
}
----

The following example shows how the `sort` field accepts _combinations_ of strings and objects as its value.

[source,json]
----
{

>    ...

Reviewer: In the other examples, you haven't used three dots to show that the JSON example isn't complete. Should be consistent, so you could add three dots to the other examples, or remove them from this one.

   "sort": [
      "country",
      {
       "by" : "field",
       "field" : "reviews.ratings.Overall",
       "mode" : "max",
       "missing" : "last",
        "type": "number"
      },
      {
       "by" : "field",
       "field" : "reviews.ratings.Location",
       "mode" : "max",
       "missing" : "last",
       "type": "number"
      },
      "-_score"
   ]
}
----

=== Sorting with Objects

> Fine-grained control over sort-procedure can be achieved by specifying _objects_ as array-values in the `sort` field.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Fine-grained control over sort-procedure can be achieved by specifying _objects_ as array values in the `sort` field.
```

Each object can have the following fields:

* `by`: Sorts results on `id`, `score`, or a specified `field` in the Full Text Index.

* `field`: Specifies the name of a field on which to sort.
Used only if `field` has been specified as the value for the `by` field; otherwise ignored.

* `missing`: Specifies the sort-procedure for documents with a missing value in a field specified for sorting.
The value of `missing` can be `first`, in which case results with missing values appear _before_ other results; or `last` (the default), in which case they appear _after_.

> * `mode`: Specifies the search-order for index-fields that contain multiple values (in consequence of arrays or multi-token analyzer-output).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `mode`: Specifies the search-order for index-fields that contain multiple values (such as arrays or multi-token analyzer-output).
```

The `default` order is undefined but deterministic, allowing the paging of results from `from (_offset_)`, with reliable ordering.
To sort using the minimum or maximum value, the value of `mode` should be set to either `min` or `max`.

* `type`: Specifies the type of the search-order field value. 
For example, `string` for text fields, `date` for DateTime fields, or `number` for numeric/geo fields.

> To fetch more accurate sort results, we strongly recommend specifying the `type` of the sort fields in the sort section of the search request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: To fetch more accurate sort results, we strongly recommend specifying the `type` of the sort fields in the sort section of the search request.
```

        "_$c": "hotel"
      }
    },
    {
      "index": "DemoIndex_76059e8b3887351c_4c1c5584",
      "id": "hotel_10063",
      "score": 10.033205341869529,
      "sort": [
        "_score"
      ],
      "fields": {
        "_$c": "hotel"
      }
    }
  ],
  "total_hits": 2,
  "max_score": 10.033205341869529,
  "took": 284614211,
  "facets": null
}
----

[#scoring-td-idf]
=== tf-idf

[abstract]
`tf-idf`, a short form of *term frequency-inverse document frequency*, is a numerical statistical value that is used to reflect how important a word is to a document in collection or scope. 

`tf-idf` is used as a weighting factor in a search for information retrieval and text mining. The `tf–idf` value increases proportionally to the number of times a word appears in the document, and it is offset by the number of documents in the collection or scope that contains the word.

Search engines often use the variations of `tf-idf` weighting scheme as a tool in scoring and ranking a document's relevance for a given query. The tf-idf scoring for a document relevancy is done on the basis of per-partition index, which means that documents across different partitions may have different scores.

> When bleve scores a document, it sums a set of sub scores to reach the final score. The scores across different searches are not directly comparable as the scores are directly dependent on the search criteria. So, changing the search criteria, like terms, boost factor etc. can vary the score.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When bleve scores a document, it sums a set of sub-scores to reach the final score. The scores across different searches are not directly comparable as the scores are directly dependent on the search criteria. So, changing the search criteria, like terms, boost factor etc. can vary the score.
```

> The more conjuncts/disjuncts/sub clauses in a query can influence the scoring. Also, the score of a particular search result is not absolute, which means you can only use the score as a comparison to the highest score from the same search result. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A larger number of conjuncts/disjuncts/sub clauses in a query can influence the scoring. Also, the score of a particular search result is not absolute, which means you can only use the score as a comparison to the highest score from the same search result. 
```

FTS does not provide any predefined range for valid scores.

> In Couchbase application, you get an option to explore the score computations during any search in FTS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In a Couchbase application, you get an option to explore the score computations during any search in FTS.
```

[#fts_explain_scoring_option]
image::fts-td-idf-explain-scoring.png[,850,align=left]

> On the Search page, you can search for a term in any index. The search result displays the search records along with the option *Explain Scoring* to view the score deriving details for search hits and which are determined by using the `tf-idf` algorithm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On the Search page, you can search for a term in any index. The search result displays the search records along with the option *Explain Scoring* to view the score details for search hits which are determined by using the `tf-idf` algorithm.
```

Reviewer: Is that still correct?

[#fts_explain_scoring_option_enabled]
image::fts-td-idf-explain-scoring-enabled.png[,850,align=left]

[#scoring-option-none]
=== Score:none

You can disable the scoring by setting `score` to `none` in the search request. This is recommended in a situation where scoring (document relevancy) is not needed by the application.

NOTE: Using `"score": "none"` is expected to boost query performance in certain situations. 

==== Example

[source, json]
----
{
  "query": {
      "match": "California",
      "field": "state"
  },
  "score": "none",
  "size": 100
}
----

=== Scoring Tips and Recommendations

> For a select term, FTS calculates the relevancy score. So, the documents having a higher relevancy score automatically appear at the top in the result. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a select term, FTS calculates the relevancy score, so the documents having a higher relevancy score automatically appear at the top in the result. 
```

==== Example

* Numeric Range Facet - computes facet on the `abv` field with 2 buckets describing `high` (greater than 7) and `low` (less than 7).
+
----
curl -X POST -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
http://localhost:8094/api/index/bix/query -d \
'{
    "size": 10,
    "query": {
        "boost": 1,
        "query": "water"
    },
    "facets": {
        "abv": {
            "size": 5,
            "field": "abv",
            "numeric_ranges": [
                {
                    "name": "high",
                    "min": 7
                },
                {
                    "name": "low",
                    "max": 7
                }
             ]
        }
    }
}'
----
+
Results:
+
[source,json]
----
facets": {
    "abv": {
        "field": "abv",
        "total": 70,
        "missing": 21,
        "other": 0,
        "numeric_ranges": [
            {
                "name": "high",
                "min": 7,
                "count": 13
            },
            {
                "name": "low",
                "max": 7,
                "count": 57
            }
        ]
    }
}
----

[#date-range-facet]
=== Date Range Facet

> The Date Range facet is same as numeric facet, but on dates instead of numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Date Range facet is same as numeric facet, but uses dates instead of numbers.
```

* Date Range Facet - computes facet on the ‘updated’ field that has 2 values old and new.
+
----
curl -XPOST -H "Content-Type: application/json" -uAdministrator:asdasd http://<node>:8094/api/index/bix/query -d '{
"ctl": {"timeout": 0},
"from": 0,
"size": 0,
"query": {
            "field": "country",
            "term": "united"
},
        "facets": {
        "types": {
        "size": 10,
        "field": "updated",
        "date_ranges": [
        {
        "name": "old",
        "end": "2010-08-01"
        },
        {
        "name": "new",
        "start": "2010-08-01"
        }
]
}
}
}'
----
+
Results
+
[source,json]
----
 "facets": {
             "types": {
                "field": "updated",
                "total": 954,
                "missing": 0,
                "other": 0,
             "date_ranges": [
              {
                "name": "old",
                "end": "2010-08-01T00:00:00Z",
                "count": 934
              },
              {
                "name": "new",
                "start": "2010-08-01T00:00:00Z",
                "count": 20
              }
               ]
             }
           }
----

[#Collections]
== Collections

> Collections field let’s the user specify an optional list of collection names. This would help the users scope their search request to only those specified collections within a multi-collection index. This becomes useful with multi-collection indexes as it can speed up searches, as well as the user can manage the Role Based Access Control more granularly with this option. Ie the search user only needs permissions for the requested collections and not for every other collection indexed within the index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Collections field let’s the user specify an optional list of collection names. This would help the users scope their search request to only those specified collections within a multi-collection index. This becomes useful with multi-collection indexes as it can speed up searches, as well as allowing the user to manage the Role Based Access Control with more granularity. 
I.e.  the search user only needs permissions for the requested collections and not for every other collection indexed within the index.
```

In the absence of any collection names, the search request would be treated as a normal search request and would retrieve documents from all the indexed collections within the index.

[#Includelocations]
== Includelocations

> Search is capable of returning the array positions for the search term relative to the whole document hierarchical structure. If the user sets it to true then the search service returns the `array_positions` of the search term occurrences inside the document. The user has to enable the `term_vector` field option for the relevant field during the indexing for fetching the location details during the search time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Search is capable of returning the array positions for the search term relative to the whole document hierarchical structure. If the user sets it to true then the search service returns the `array_positions` of the search term occurrences inside the document. 
The user has to enable the `term_vector` field option for the relevant field during the indexing for fetching the location details during the search time.
```
